



Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)                         A. Chacko
Request for Comments: 1234                                       D. Wang
Category: Informational                       University of Pennsylvania
ISSN: 2070-1721                                            22 April 2021


                        Music Streaming Protocol

Abstract

   Music Streaming Protocol, MSP, is an application-level protocol for
   real-time control over the delivery of audio data, e.g. songs.

Status of This Memo

   This document is not an Internet Standards Track specification; it is
   published for informational purposes.

   This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
   (IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF community.  It has
   received public review and has been approved for publication by the
   Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Not all documents
   approved by the IESG are candidates for any level of Internet
   Standard; see Section 2 of RFC 7841.

   Information about the current status of this document, any errata,
   and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
   https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1234.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Requirements
     1.2.  Terminology
     1.3.  MSP States
   2.  MSP Message
   3.  Request
     3.1.  Request Line
     3.2.  Request Header Fields
   4.  Response
     4.1.  Status-Code
   5.  Method Definitions
     5.1.  SETUP
     5.2.  LIST
     5.3.  PLAY
     5.4.  STOP
     5.5.  TEARDOWN
   6.  Header Field Definitions
     6.1.  Iden

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements

   The keywords MUST, MUST NOT, REQUIRED, SHALL, SHALL NOT, SHOULD,
   SHOULD NOT, RECOMMENDED, MAY, and OPTIONAL, when they appear in this
   document, are to be interpreted as described in RFC2119.

1.2.  Terminology

   Client:  The client requests audio data from the server.

   Server:  The server provides playback or recording services for one
      or more audio streams.

   Message:  MSP unit of communication, a MSP request or MSP response.

   Request:  A MSP request.

   Response:  A MSP response.

   MSP Session:  A MSP connection between the client and server
      facilitating the transport of audio i.e. songs and related data
      from the server.

1.3.  MSP States

   The server maintains a MSP session state for each stream.

   SETUP:  Allocates resources for and starts a MSP session.

   PLAY:  Starts transmission of audio data specified by ID number on
      stream allocated during SETUP.

   STOP:  Halts stream without freeing resources allocated for the
      session on server.

   LIST:  Retrieves a list of songs that are available on the server
      along with their respective ID numbers.

   TEARDOWN:  Frees all allocated resources associated with a MSP
      session on the server and destroys it.

2.  MSP Message

   MSP messages are encoded in UTF-8 and MSP lines are terminated by
   CRLF.  A MSP message is terminated by an empty line.

3.  Request

   A client sends a MSP request to the server.  A MSP request contains a
   method and parameters for the method.  The server MUST be able to
   respond to new requests from a client regardless of prior requests
   from that client.

   Request =  Request-Line     ;
              request-header   ;
              CRLF
              [ message-body ] ;

3.1.  Request Line

   Method = "SETUP"      ;
          | "PLAY"       ;
          | "STOP"       ;
          | "LIST"       ;
          | "TEARDOWN"   ;

3.2.  Request Header Fields

   request-header = "Iden"   ;

4.  Response

   Request =  Status-Code      ;
              CRLF
              [ message-body ] ;

4.1.  Status-Code

   A Status-Code indicates the status of the server's response to a
   client's request.  Codes are represented as a 2 digit integer.

   Status-Code = 10 ; OK
               | 20 ; Iden not found

5.  Method Definitions

   The method token indicates the method to be performed on the server.

   method      direction           requirement
   SETUP       client->server      required
   PLAY        client->server      required
   STOP        client->server      required
   LIST        client->server      required
   TEARDOWN    client->server      required

5.1.  SETUP

   A client issues a SETUP request to notify the server to allocate
   resources for a audio stream and begin a MSP session.

5.2.  LIST

   A client issues a LIST request to request a response from the server.
   A LIST response from the server MUST contain a list of all songs and
   their associated ID number labels available on the server.

5.3.  PLAY

   A client issues a PLAY request to notify the server to start sending
   song data.  A client MUST NOT send a PLAY request until all SETUP
   requests are successfully acknowledged.

   A PLAY request MUST contain a Iden request header.  This parameter
   specifies the ID number of the song on the server requested by the
   client.

   A PLAY request positions the play time to the beginning of the data
   to be streamed.

   In the case that the server is already playing a song, a PLAY request
   immediately switches to streaming the new song.  If the requested
   song is the same as that which is already playing, i.e. identified by
   the same ID number, the PLAY request causes no action.

5.4.  STOP

   A client issues a STOP request halts the delivery of the audio
   stream.  Any server resources MUST be kept.

   A STOP request causes no action if no song is currently being
   streamed.

5.5.  TEARDOWN

   A client issues a TEARDOWN request to stop stream delivery and to
   notify the server to free all associated resources and destroy the
   MSP session.

6.  Header Field Definitions

   Header fields specify parameters to be used in MSP messages.

6.1.  Iden

   The Iden request header field is sent from the client to the server
   to specify the ID number of the song to be streamed.
